Spring Boot is the best Java framework for developing web applications.
In this video, you're going to create a spring boot project.
You actually need to extensions to develop a Springwood application, the extension pack for Java as
well as the spring boot extension pack.
So go back to the Visual Studio Code marketplace and then look for the spring boot extension pack.
There you have it.
Now I've already installed it, so I'll give you a couple of seconds to do the same.
Okay.
Once you install it, I want you to close the code and reopen it.
All right.
So let's talk about the spring initial riser.
The spring initial riser generates a spring boot project.
The spring boot extension pack includes the spring initial riser.
So from VW's code.
Open the command palette using control shift P for using windows and command shift P for Mac.
And then click on the spring initial riser.
And as of this recording, the most recent stable version of Spring Boot is 2.6.7.
The versions will be different depending on when you're watching this video.
So just choose a stable version.
In other words, choose one that doesn't precede parentheses.
Obviously you will use the Java programming language.
And the group ID identifies the organization creating the project.
Your group ID should be a fully qualified domain name.
It should include a domain extension like dot com, dot org dot net, followed by the name of the organization.
So for this tutorial I'm going to create a group ID of com dot http further in the part.
Now one thing I want to also mention is that the group ID should always be lowercase.
The artifact ID determines the name of your application.
I'm going to call the application.
Hello, Spring.
Collect the group ID.
The artifact ID must be lowercase as well.
And every word that follows must be separated by a hyphen.
We will stick with the default jar packaging type.
We're going to discuss packaging in more detail in an upcoming workbook.
Choose a Java version that matches the one you have installed.
I'm using Java 11, so I'll choose a Java version of 11.
Dependency is software that your application depends on.
We will discuss dependencies in more detail soon enough.
You don't need any dependencies right now.
And now you can generate your project inside the folder of your choice.
I'm going to generate it inside of my desktop directory.
Okay.
Go ahead and press open.
And it opens the project that you generated.
To recap, you created a spring boot project using the spring initial user recall that group ID identifies
the organization creating the project.
It should be a fully qualified domain name that's completely lowercase.
Artifact ID is the name of your application and every word that follows is joined by a hyphen.
Choose Jar as the file type to package your application, and a dependency is software that your application
depends on.